Because consecutive layers are only partially connected and because it heavily reuses its weights, a CNN has many fewer parameters than a fully connected DNN, which makes it much faster to train, reduces the risk of overfitting, and requires much less training data.The main advantage of CNN compared to its predecessors is that it automatically detects the important features without any human supervision. For example, given many pictures of cats and dogs it learns distinctive features for eacConvolutions are not densely connected, not all input nodes affect all output nodes. This gives convolutional layers more flexibility in learning. Moreover, the number of weights per layer is a lot smaller, which helps a lot with high-dimensional inputs such as image data.All the layers of a CNN have multiple convolutional filters working and scanning the complete feature matrix and carry out the dimensionality reduction. This enables CNN to be a very apt and fit network for image classifications and processing.What is the difference between a Fully-Connected and Convolutional Neural Network? A convolutional layer is much more specialized, and efficient, than a fully connected layer. In a fully connected layer each neuron is connected to every neuron in the previous layer, and each connection has it's own weight.fully connected neural network consists of a series of fully connected layers that connect every neuron in one layer to every neuron in the other layer. The major advantage of fully connected networks is that they are “structure agnostic” i.e. there are no special assumptions needed to be made about the input.The main advantage of this network over the other networks was that it required a lot lesser number of parameters to train, making it faster and less prone to overfitting. VGGNet — This is another popular network, with its most popular version being VGG16.Comparatively, there is no neuron or weights in CNN. CNN instead casts multiple layers on images and uses filtration to analyze image inputs. These layers are the math layer, rectified linear unit layer, and fully connected layer.What is the biggest advantage utilizing CNN? Little dependence on pre processing, decreasing the needs of human effort developing its functionalities. It is easy to understand and fast to implement. It has the highest accuracy among all alghoritms that predicts imagesThey are called deep when hidden layers are more than one (what people implement most of the time). This is where the expression DNN (Deep Neural Network) comes. CNN (Convolutional Neural Network): they are designed specifically for computer vision (they are sometimes applied elsewhere though).Three following types of deep neural networks are popularly used today: Multi-Layer Perceptrons (MLP) Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN)CNN is just a kind of neural network; its convolutional layer differs from other neural networks. To perform image classification, CNN goes through every corner, vector and dimension of the pixel matrix. Performing with this all features of a matrix makes CNN more sustainable to data of matrix form.CNN helps in classifying even the most complex of images with high accuracy. CNN algorithms can also apply relevant filters to identify spatial as well as temporal dependencies in images.Top 7 Applications of Convolutional Neural Networks
Decoding Facial Recognition. Facial recognition is broken down by a convolutional neural network into the following major components - ... 
Analyzing Documents. ... 
Historic and Environmental Collections. ... 
Understanding Climate. ... 
Grey Areas. ... 
Advertising. ... 
Other Interesting Fields.Convolutional Neural Network, also known as CNN or ConvNet, is a class of neural networks that specializes in processing data that has a grid-like topology, such as an image. A digital image is a binary representation of visual data.
